DOCSP-44794 Field Types (#69)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/data-modeling/field-types.txt

field back to a BSON ``double`` when saving the document to the database.

.. note::

   Changing the field definition in a model class does not automatically alter
   the data stored in the database. To change the data type of a field in the
   database, you must re-save the data after the change.

Field Types
-----------

You can define the field type for fields in a model class by using the ``field``
and ``type`` macros. The following example defines the fields of a ``Person``
class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-define-fields
   :end-before: # end-define-fields

The following list describes the field types that you can use in {+odm+}:

- ``Array``
- ``Bson::Binary``
- ``BigDecimal``
- ``Mongoid::Boolean`` or ``"Boolean"``
- ``Date``
- ``DateTime``
- ``Float``
- ``Hash``
- ``Integer``
- ``Object``
- ``Bson::ObjectId``
- ``Range``
- ``Regexp``
- ``Set``
- ``String``
- ``Mongoid::StringifiedSymbol``
- ``Time``
- ``ActiveSupport::TimeWithZone``

.. note::

   {+odm+} does not support the ``BSON::Int64`` or ``BSON::Int32`` types.
   Defining a field as one of these types will save to the database correctly,

>    but querying the field will return the fields as an ``Integer``. 

Author: I think the fact that is saves correctly is more due to MongoDB, not because of partial support from the driver. From my understanding, it doesn't support them at all as fields. I reworded this section to hopefully be a bit more clear

   
   Similarly, querying fields of the ``BSON::Decimal128`` type will return the

>    fields as a ``BigDecimal`` in BSON versions 5 or later.

Author: It comes bundled with the driver, so I just removed that part since this is on the docs for a version that automatically comes with v5.1

reading from the database, values that require special handling might not work
correctly in an untyped field. The following BSON data types should not be
stored in untyped fields:

- ``Date``: Returns as ``Time`` in untyped fields
- ``DateTime``: Returns as ``Time`` in untyped fields
- ``Range``: Returns as ``Hash`` in untyped fields

StringifiedSymbol
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``StringifiedSymbol`` field type to store values that should be exposed
as symbols to {+language+} applications. ``StringifiedSymbol`` allows you to use symbols
while ensuring interoperability with other drivers. This type stores all data on
the database as strings, and converts the strings to symbols when read by the
application. Values that cannot be directly converted to symbols, such as
integers and arrays, are converted into strings and then into symbols.

The following example stores a ``status`` field as a ``StringifiedSymbol`` and
demonstrates how the field is stored and returned:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-stringified-symbol
   :end-before: # end-stringified-symbol

Hash
~~~~

> You can store Hash data in a field by using the ``Hash`` type. When you specify

Author: Made it monospaced since Hash is a Ruby type

a field as a ``Hash``, adhere to the MongoDB :manual:`Naming
Restrictions </reference/limits/#naming-restrictions>` to ensure that the values
store properly in the database.

The following example creates a ``Person`` class and specifies the ``url`` field
as a ``Hash``. 

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-hash
   :end-before: # end-hash

Time
~~~~

You can store values as ``Time`` instances by using the ``Time`` field value.
``Time`` fields are stored in the time zone configured for your application. To
learn more about configuring time zones, see the :ref:`Time Zones <time-zones>`
guide. 

.. TODO: Update Time Zones guide ref if it's changed during standardization

> The following example creates a ``Voter`` class and specifies the
> ``registered_at`` property as a ``Time`` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a ``Voter`` class and specifies that the value of the
``registered_at`` field is a ``Time`` type:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-time
   :end-before: # end-time

.. note::

   Storing a ``Date`` or ``DateTime`` value in a field specified as ``Time``
   converts the value to ``Time`` when assigned. If you store a string in a
   ``Time`` field, {+odm+} parses the string by using the ``Time.parse`` method.

> 

Reviewer: S: I think theres more explanation/example of this in the specify a query page

Author: Added as a todo

Date
~~~~

You can store the following value types in a field specified as a ``Date``:

- ``Date``: Stores the value as provided.
- ``Time``: Stores the date portion of the value in the value's time zone.
- ``DateTime``: Stores the date portion of the value in the value's time zone.
- ``ActiveSupport::TimeWithZone``: Stores the date portion of the value in the
  value's time zone.
- ``String``: Stores the date specified in the string.
- ``Integer``: Takes the value as if it is a UTC timestamp and
  converts it into your application's configured time zone. {+odm+} then stores
  the date taken from that timestamp.
- ``Float``: Takes the value as if it is a UTC timestamp and
  converts it into your application's configured time zone. {+odm+} then stores
  the date taken from that timestamp.

Because converting a ``Time`` or ``DateTime`` discards the time portion, we
recommend explicitly converting ``String``, ``Time``, and ``DateTime``, objects
to ``Date`` before assigning them to the field.

.. note::

   When a database contains a string value for a ``Date`` field, the driver

>    parses the value by using the ``Time.parse`` method, then discards the time

Reviewer: S: change in all locations
```suggestion
   parses the value by using the ``Time.parse()`` method, then discards the time
```

   portion. ``Time.parse`` considers values without time zones to be in local
   time.

DateTime
~~~~~~~~

> When you assign a value to, or query on a ``DateTime`` field, {+odm+} converts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you assign a value to a field defined as a ``DateTime`` or query on these fields, {+odm+} converts
```

> the value to a UTC ``Time`` value before sending it to the MongoDB server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the value to a UTC ``Time`` value before saving it in MongoDB.
```

Author: I went with "sending" since this is talking about querying too which doesn't "save" to Mongo

{+odm+} saves the value with the time zone embedded in the ``DateTime`` object. When
you retrieve the value, {+odm+} converts the UTC time to the time zone
configured for your application.

The following example creates a ``Ticket`` class and specifies the ``opened_at``
field as a ``DateTime`` field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-datetime

>    :end-before: # end-datetime

Reviewer: S: consider replacing with a more intuitive value or continue using the `Voter` class

If you save an integer or float value to a ``DateTime`` field, the value is treated as
a Unix timestamp in UTC. The following example saves an integer value to the
``opened_at`` field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-datetime-int
   :end-before: # end-datetime-int

If you save a string value to a ``DateTime`` field, {+odm+} saves the ticket
with the time zone specified. If a time zone is not specified, {+odm+} saves the

> value by using the default {+odm+} timezone:

Reviewer: S: what is the default timezone? does it use the one configured in your application?

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-datetime-string
   :end-before: # end-datetime-string

.. note::

   {+odm+} parses string values into ``DateTime`` by using the ``Time.parse``
   method, which considers values without time zones to be in local time.

Timestamps
~~~~~~~~~~

You can include timestamp fields by including the ``Mongoid::Timestamps``
module when you create your class. Timestamp fields include the following

> fields:

Reviewer: S: clarify what is meant by this sentence. Does it mean that when this module is included, Mongoid automatically adds these fields/subfields?

- ``created_at``: Stores the time the document was created.
- ``updated_at``: Stores the time the document was last updated.

> The following example creates a ``Person`` class with timestamp fields:

Reviewer: S: consider using Post instead of Person for intepretability

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-timestamps
   :end-before: # end-timestamps

You can also choose to include only the ``created_at`` or ``updated_at`` fields
by including only the ``Created`` or ``Updated`` modules. The following example
creates a ``Person`` class with only the ``created_at`` field, and a ``Post``

> class with only the ``updated_at`` field:

Reviewer: S: consider using only Post

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-timestamps-specific
   :end-before: # end-timestamps-specific

You can shorten the timestamp field names to ``c_at`` and ``u_at`` by setting
the ``::Short`` option when including the module:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-timestamps-short

>    :end-before: # end-timestamps-short

Reviewer: S: use Post

Reviewer: I dont think this was updated

You can disable creating the timestamp field for specific operations by calling
the ``timeless`` method on the method call. The following example disables the
timestamps for the ``save`` operation:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-timestamps-disable
   :end-before: # end-timestamps-disable

Regexp
~~~~~~

You can store regular expressions in a field by using the ``Regexp`` type. 

> While MongoDB uses `Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCRE) <https://www.pcre.org/>`__,
> {+odm+} uses Ruby's `Onigmo <https://github.com/k-takata/Onigmo>`__. PCRE and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While MongoDB implements `Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCRE) <https://www.pcre.org/>`__,
{+odm+} uses {+langauge+}'s `Onigmo <https://github.com/k-takata/Onigmo>`__ protocol (?). PCRE and
```

Onigmo provide generally similar functionality, but there are several syntax
differences. For example, Onigmo uses ``\A`` and ``\z`` to match the beginning and
end of a string, while PCRE uses ``^`` and ``$``.

> When you declare a field as a ``Regexp``, {+odm+} converts Ruby regular

Reviewer: S: make sure you use the Ruby SC in all places

expressions to BSON regular expressions when storing the result into your
database. The database returns the field as a ``Bson::Regexp::Raw`` instance.
You can use the ``compile`` method on ``BSON::Regexp::Raw`` instances to convert
the data back to a Ruby regular expression.

The following example creates a ``Token`` class and specifies the ``pattern``
field as a ``Regexp``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-regexp
   :end-before: # end-regexp

> 

Reviewer: S: can link to regex section of specify a query guide

Author: Added as a TODO since I don't have that version of the specify page on my branch (and trying to pull now is causing too many issues)

.. important::

   Converting a BSON regular expression to a Ruby regular expression might
   produce a different regular expression than the original. This difference is

>    due to the differences between the syntax Onigmo and PCRE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   due to the differences between the Onigmo and PCRE syntaxes.
```

BigDecimal
~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``BigDecimal`` type to store numbers with increased precision.
{+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values in two different ways, depending on the

> value of ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value you set for the ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` configuration property:
```

> - If set to ``True``, {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as BSON ``Decimal128``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If set to ``true``, {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as BSON ``Decimal128``
```

  values.

> - If set to ``False`` (default), {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If set to ``false`` (default), {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as strings.
```

Consider the following limitations when setting the

> ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` option to true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` option to ``true``:
```

- ``Decimal128`` has a limited range and precision.
  ``Decimal128`` has a maximum value of approximately ``10^6145`` and a minimum
  of approximately ``-10^6145``, with a maximum of 34 bits of precision. If you
  are storing values that are outside of these limits, we recommend storing them
  as a string instead.
- ``Decimal128`` accepts signed ``NaN`` values, but ``BigDecimal`` does not.
  Retrieving signed ``NaN`` ``Decimal128`` values from the database as
  ``BigDecimal`` returns the value unsigned.

> - ``Decimal128`` maintains trailing zeroes, but ``BidDecimal`` does not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``Decimal128`` maintains trailing zeroes, but ``BigDecimal`` does not.
```

  Because of this, retrieving ``Decimal128`` values from the database as
  ``BigDecimal`` might result in a loss of precision.

.. note::
   
   When you set the ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` option to ``false``
   and store a ``BigDecimal`` into an untyped field, you cannot query the field 
   as a ``BigDecimal``. Because the value is stored as a string, querying 
   the untyped field for a ``BigDecimal`` value does not find the value in the
   database. To find the value, you must first convert the query value to a string.

   You can avoid this issue by specifying the field as a ``BigDecimal`` type,
   rather than untyped.

> Specify Fields with Strings or Symbols
> ---------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify Field Types as Strings or Symbols
------------------------------------------
```

You can use strings or symbols to specify certain field types in {+odm+}, instead of
using their class names. The following example specifies the ``state`` field by
using the class name, a string, and a symbol:

.. code-block:: ruby

>    class Order

Reviewer: S: change to address or something more intuitive. it also is confusing to put state as an integer

Author: Updated "state" to be more intuitive

     include Mongoid::Document
     
     # Class Name
     field :state, type: Integer

     # Symbol
     field :state, type: :integer
     
     # String
     field :state, type: "integer"
   end

> The following field types can be specified as a string or a symbol:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list provides the field types that can you can specify as strings or symbols:
```

   
   * - ``BSON::Binary``
     - ``:binary``
     - ``"BSON::Binary"``
   
   * - ``Mongoid::Boolean``
     - ``:boolean``
     - ``"Mongoid::Boolean"``
   
   * - ``Date``
     - ``:date``
     - ``"Date"``
   
   * - ``DateTime``
     - ``:date_time``
     - ``"DateTime"``
   
   * - ``Float``
     - ``:float``
     - ``"Float"``
   
   * - ``Hash``
     - ``:hash``
     - ``"Hash"``
   
   * - ``Integer``
     - ``:integer``
     - ``"Integer"``
   
   * - ``BSON::ObjectId``
     - ``:object_id``
     - ``"BSON::ObjectId"``
   
   * - ``Range``
     - ``:range``
     - ``"Range"``
   
   * - ``Regexp``
     - ``:regexp``
     - ``"Regexp"``
   
   * - ``Set``
     - ``:set``
     - ``"Set"``
   
   * - ``String``
     - ``:string``
     - ``"String"``
   
   * - ``StringifiedSymbol``
     - ``:stringified_symbol``
     - ``"StringifiedSymbol"``
   
   * - ``Symbol``
     - ``:symbol``
     - ``"Symbol"``
   
   * - ``Time``
     - ``:time``
     - ``"Time"``

Custom Field Types
------------------

You can create custom field types and define how {+odm+} serializes and
deserializes them. To create a custom field type, define a class that
implements the following methods:

> - ``mongoize``, which takes an instance of your custom type and converts it to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``mongoize()``, which takes an instance of your custom type and converts it to
```

Reviewer: applies to all method references

Author: I originally left off the `()` since it seems like you can call methods without it in mongoid, but it makes sense to add them for consistency

Reviewer: It doesnt look like you added the parentheses

  an object that MongoDB can store.
- ``demongoize``, which takes an object from MongoDB and converts it to an
  instance of your custom type.

> - ``evolve``, which takes an instance of your custom type and converts is to a
>   criteria that MongoDB can use to query the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``evolve``, which takes an instance of your custom type and converts it to a
  criteria that MongoDB can use to query the database.
```

converts them to similar types that can be stored in the database. {+odm+} uses
the ``mongoize`` class method when it calls the getter and setter methods.

The ``demongoize`` method converts the stored ``Array`` value into the custom
``Point`` type. The {+odm+} uses this method when it calls the getter.

The ``evolve`` method converts the custom ``Point`` type into a queryable
``Array`` type, and converts all other types to ``object``. {+odm+} uses this
method when it calls a method that queries the database.

Phantom Custom Field Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can create a custom field type that saves a different value to the database
than the value assigned in the application. This can be useful to have
descriptive values in the application while storing more compact values in the
database.

The following example creates a ``ColorMapping`` type that uses the name of the
color in the application, but stores the color as an integer in the database:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-phantom-field-type
   :end-before: # end-phantom-field-type

Dynamic Fields
--------------

> You can instruct {+odm+} to create fields dynamically by setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instruct {+odm+} to create fields dynamically by including the
```

``Mongoid::Attributes::Dynamic`` module in your model. This allows {+odm+} to

> create fields based on an arbitrary hash, or by the documents stored in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create fields based on an arbitrary hash, or based on the documents already stored in the
```

database.

The following example creates a ``Person`` class with dynamic fields:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-dynamic-field
   :end-before: # end-dynamic-field

> You can also specify both fixed fields and dynamic fields within the same class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify both fixed fields and dynamic fields within the same class.
```

> You can also specify both fixed fields and dynamic fields within the same class.

Reviewer: S; move to tip

> When doing so, {+odm+} treats all attributes for properties with field definitions
> according to their field type, and all other attributes as dynamic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, {+odm+} treats all attributes for properties with field definitions
according to their field type, and all other attributes as dynamic.
```

When using dynamic fields in your application, you must initially set the value in one of the
following ways:

- Pass the attribute hash to the constructor.
- Assign values by using the ``attributes=`` method.
- Assign values by using the ``[]=`` method.
- Assign values by using the ``write_attribute`` method.
- Work with values that are already present in the database.

> 

Reviewer: S: provide example?

Author: Since these are all just standard ways to assign values in mongoid, I didn't think an example would add much value and opted to keep it off since this page is long already

If you don't initially set the value by using one of the preceding options,
invoking the attribute returns a ``NoMethodError``.

Reserved Characters
-------------------

Both {+odm+} and the MongoDB Query API use the ``.`` character to separate field
names in nested documents, and use the ``$`` character at the beginning of a

> word to indicate a query operator. Because of this, you should avoid using these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
string to indicate a query operator. Because of this, you should avoid using these
```

characters in your field names. 

If your application requires the use of these characters, you can access the
fields by calling the ``send`` method. The following example creates a ``User``

> class with fields that contain reserved characters. It then accesses the fields
> with the ``send`` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class with fields that contain reserved characters. It then accesses the fields
by using the ``send()`` method:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-reserved-characters
   :end-before: # end-reserved-characters

You can also access these fields by calling the ``read_attribute`` method.

.. important::

   Because updating and replacing fields containing these reserved characters
   requires special operators, calling getters and setters on these fields

>    raises an ``InvalidDotDollarAssignment`` exception.

Reviewer: S: add additional information section to link to other relevant guides (can leave as a todo)

database. The database returns the field as a ``Bson::Regexp::Raw`` instance.
You can use the ``compile()`` method on ``BSON::Regexp::Raw`` instances to convert
the data back to a {+language+} regular expression.

The following example creates a ``Token`` class and specifies the ``pattern``
field as a ``Regexp``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-regexp
   :end-before: # end-regexp

.. important::

   Converting a BSON regular expression to a {+language+} regular expression might
   produce a different regular expression than the original. This difference is
   due to the differences between the Onigmo and PCRE syntaxes.

.. TODO: To learn more about regular expressions in {+odm+}, see :ref:`mongoid-regular-expressions`.

BigDecimal
~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``BigDecimal`` type to store numbers with increased precision.
{+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values in two different ways, depending on the
value you set for the ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` configuration property:

- If set to ``true``, {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as BSON ``Decimal128``
  values.

> - If set to ``false`` (default), {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If set to ``false`` (default), {+odm+} stores ``BigDecimal`` values as strings.
```

Consider the following limitations when setting the
``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` option to ``true``:

- ``Decimal128`` has a limited range and precision.
  ``Decimal128`` has a maximum value of approximately ``10^6145`` and a minimum
  of approximately ``-10^6145``, with a maximum of 34 bits of precision. If you
  are storing values that are outside of these limits, we recommend storing them

>   as a string instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as strings instead.
```

- ``Decimal128`` accepts signed ``NaN`` values, but ``BigDecimal`` does not.
  Retrieving signed ``NaN`` ``Decimal128`` values from the database as
  ``BigDecimal`` returns the value unsigned.
- ``Decimal128`` maintains trailing zeroes, but ``BigDecimal`` does not.
  Because of this, retrieving ``Decimal128`` values from the database as
  ``BigDecimal`` might result in a loss of precision.

.. note::
   
   When you set the ``Mongoid.map_big_decimal_to_decimal128`` option to ``false``
   and store a ``BigDecimal`` into an untyped field, you cannot query the field 
   as a ``BigDecimal``. Because the value is stored as a string, querying 
   the untyped field for a ``BigDecimal`` value does not find the value in the
   database. To find the value, you must first convert the query value to a string.

>    You can avoid this issue by specifying the field as a ``BigDecimal`` type,
>    rather than untyped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can avoid this issue by specifying the field as a ``BigDecimal`` type,
   instead of as untyped.
```

StringifiedSymbol
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``StringifiedSymbol`` field type to store values that should be exposed
as symbols to {+language+} applications. ``StringifiedSymbol`` allows you to use symbols
while ensuring interoperability with other drivers. This type stores all data on
the database as strings, and converts the strings to symbols when read by the
application. Values that cannot be directly converted to symbols, such as
integers and arrays, are converted into strings and then into symbols.

> The following example stores a ``status`` field as a ``StringifiedSymbol`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example defines the ``status`` field as a ``StringifiedSymbol`` and
```

demonstrates how the field is stored and returned:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-types.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-stringified-symbol
   :end-before: # end-stringified-symbol

Specify Field Types as Strings or Symbols
-----------------------------------------

You can use strings or symbols to specify certain field types in {+odm+}, instead of

> using their class names. The following example specifies the ``state`` field by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using their class names. The following example specifies the ``order_num`` field by
```

   
   * - ``BSON::Binary``
     - ``:binary``
     - ``"BSON::Binary"``
   
   * - ``Mongoid::Boolean``
     - ``:boolean``
     - ``"Mongoid::Boolean"``
   
   * - ``Date``
     - ``:date``
     - ``"Date"``
   
   * - ``DateTime``
     - ``:date_time``
     - ``"DateTime"``
   
   * - ``Float``
     - ``:float``
     - ``"Float"``
   
   * - ``Hash``
     - ``:hash``
     - ``"Hash"``
   
   * - ``Integer``
     - ``:integer``
     - ``"Integer"``
   
   * - ``BSON::ObjectId``
     - ``:object_id``
     - ``"BSON::ObjectId"``
   
   * - ``Range``
     - ``:range``
     - ``"Range"``
   
   * - ``Regexp``
     - ``:regexp``
     - ``"Regexp"``
   
   * - ``Set``
     - ``:set``
     - ``"Set"``
   
   * - ``String``
     - ``:string``
     - ``"String"``
   
   * - ``StringifiedSymbol``
     - ``:stringified_symbol``
     - ``"StringifiedSymbol"``
   
   * - ``Symbol``
     - ``:symbol``
     - ``"Symbol"``
   
   * - ``Time``
     - ``:time``
     - ``"Time"``

Custom Field Types
------------------

You can create custom field types and define how {+odm+} serializes and
deserializes them. To create a custom field type, define a class that
implements the following methods:

> - ``mongoize``, which takes an instance of your custom type and converts it to

Reviewer: S: consider changing the format of this list to match whats done in other sections
```suggestion
- ``mongoize``: Takes an instance of your custom type and converts it to
```
